I have decided that I want to try to blog on a daily basis. The obvious 
questions that come to mind are "Why?" and "How?"

If successful, I think that regular blogging could be very beneficial. Regular 
self-reflection is a good habit, and this sort of practice would build that 
habit. For students looking for an undergraduate research opportunity, an 
academic blog sprinkled with a few personal reflections provides a window into 
my personality, my research interests, and my research practices. Finally, 
regular blogging elevates my visibility on the internet, important for my next 
job search and for serindipitous colaborations. For both personal reflection and 
interpersonal connection, a blog has many benefits.

Blogging has its drawbacks, of course. Planning and executing my writing will 
take time away from other tasks. To counter this, I must keep my writing 
succinct; indeed I see this as an opportunity to work on swift planning and 
execution of writing. Posts in which I have to do substantial reading or 
experimentation will inevitably take time, but this should translate into 
planning ahead and doing reading and research for my blog post in small pieces. 
It is also possible that I might not present myself very well on the blog, that 
students or others might be turned off by something I write. As long as I keep 
true to myself, I think this problem will be small. I do have some sense of 
judgement, so I expect that the benefits of increased visitility will outweigh 
the potential drawbacks of being misunderstood.

Successful blogging is not guaranteed, and I need to have a strategy if I hope 
to be successful. This brings me to the picking out a few weekly blogging 
topcis. I have already planned out my blogging topics for the next couple of 
weeks, but I think the best approach is to have a handful of regular, repeating 
topics. I have already landed on two weekly topics that I would like to use: on 
Sundays I will blog about reflections about being a scientist and being a 
Christian; Tuesdays will be called Technical Tuesdays, and I will blog about 
something related to programming, experiments, or other technical things. So 
far, I have found that I tend to come up with a few incidental topics that span 
multiple days, and others that need only a single day. I place the multi-day 
topics after Technical Tuesday, and use the single-day topics near the end of 
the week and on Monday. Additional topics that should appear regularly, if not 
weekly, include reflections on teaching and Physics Education Research, and 
reviews and summaries of my recent Physics paper reads.

I think I have things off to a decent start. I will come back to this in a 
little over one week, and we'll see if these ideas have born fruit.
