I will have a number of web presences when I begin working at Dickinson. These 
include my faculty profile, my personal web page hosted by Dickinson (I presume 
such pages are offerred by Dickinson to faculty members), the web pages for the 
courses that I teach, my LinkedIn profile, and finally my own site, 
dcmertens.com. How shall I organize these?

I feel that my faculty profile page and my LinkedIn profile are little more than 
a jumping-off points where others can find me. People who land on these pages 
will be directed to the other sites as appropriate.

The focus of my personal web site on Dickinson shall be my students. I will have 
a section dedicated to my current teaching and a section dedicated to student 
research. The course-related content will include the course syllabi and other 
course documents as well as online homework submission, if appropriate for the 
course. The research-related content will contain useful information about my 
student research projects and research opportunities. An optional part of the 
student research will be the maintainance of a research page that covers their 
work. This will be an important resource not only for future student recruiting, 
but also for the students' web presence after they graduate.

My own site, dcmertens.com, will be the public face of my professional work, and 
will be aimed towards my professional colleagues. A portion of the site will 
focus on my primary research, which at the moment is my synchronization work. 
Part of the site should focus on my Perl work and other software development. 
The site should contain my blog posts, which themselves should focus mostly on 
my professional endeavors.

The issue becomes murky when I have content that would be of interest to both my 
colleagues and my students, which will occur when discussing my 
student-accessible research. Furthermore, the notion of any substantial body of 
static text that needs to be "brushed up" sounds like a system optimized to 
produce out-of-date information. All of this seems to suggest that I should view 
both my Dickinson site and dcmertens.com as two front-ends to the same general 
publishing back-end. The bulk of the material will be in the form of dated blog 
posts and different pages on the site will consolidate and display the 
appropriate posts. Each blog post will be tagged with the appropriate topic(s). 
In fact, I could even run all of this off of the same Dickinson server and 
simply examine the url request to determine if I should serve the dcmertens.com 
content (and style) or the Dickinson content (and style).

So, both dcmertens.com and users.dickinson.edu/~dcmertens will be served from 
the same server. Their content will be generated from the same system. My 
personal web site will include information about my synchronization research and 
my Perl work, whereas my Dickinson web site will include information about my 
teaching, opportunities for student research, and my students' entries about 
their own research.
