=pod

With my postdoc at the Amaral Lab in its final days, I wanted to take some time 
to reflect on what has gone well and what has gone poorly. Today I focus on what 
I can learn from the positive aspects of this experience.

One of the most impressive parts of the group when I interviewed was the group 
meeting. I was particularly impressed that they reviewed the journals every week 
because I do not keep up on the literature on my own. The group meetings had 
their drawbacks, of course. Journal summaries of Nature and Science are a waste 
of time for most of us because they don't have anything interesting for most of 
us. Also, group meetings are run in a lecture style, which makes conversation 
difficult, at best. We could put these two problems together and instead have a 
group meeting around a conference table and have journal summaries be journal 
reports. For journal reports, a student would simply print off figures or 
articles that they thought everybody would care about, and if there was nothing 
of interest, nothing would be discussed. I could occasionally spot-check an 
issue of Nature or Science to be sure that the student didn't miss anything. If 
we had trouble controlling the flow of the conversation, a plush toy would be an 
easy solution. But, generally, having weekly group meetings is a good idea, and 
journal reviews give consistent substance to something that might otherwise have 
only occasional substance.

I really like that the Amaral Lab goes out to lunch together. I am reminded also 
of Karin Dahmen's group, in which Karin would join the grad students once a 
week, usually on Thursdays, to go out to lunch. Otherwise, they just ate on 
their own. Generally, I think that community meals are productive and help 
lubricate technical conversations. I do not like the notion of eating together 
every single day, as is the practice here, but that will not be much of an
option at Dickinson.

For the most part, the technology Just Works in the Amaral Lab. There are lots 
of workstations and I can log in to each workstation and get the same desktop. 
This helps me focus on my research and not waste time fiddling with 
configuration. If there is any trouble with my machine but I don't have time to 
debug what's going on, I can temporarily switch to another one and keep working. 
All of this points to the notion that I should make my own research group's 
setup as simple as possible so that my students can get going with a minimum of 
fuss. Whether this comes in the form of a one-click installer for my group's 
software, or a VirtualBox image with all of the software preloaded, the point is 
that the software setup should be as easy as possible.

=cut
