The biggest problem with the Amaral lab: drawing the line between "productive" 
and "other" work became increasingly difficult. I was assigned to work on 
Spot-On, but I was never given any goals or metrics. I jumped on to the Calorie 
King time series analysis but was neither managed by Luis nor by Julia. I never
ended up working on a networks project.

Thus, I find myself without any goals from above, not working on the subject 
matter that I care about, and with notion that software is a legitimate, 
productive form or output. Is it any surprise that I didn't publish a single
paper while working under Luis?

During my first couple of months at my postdoc I worked very hard 
and---as best I can tell---I was very productive. With a little bit of
direction, I might have been able to push my work to productive results.

Holy shit, Julia should have been managing me, and SHE DIDN'T. And Luis didn't
step in to help. WTF??

After a few
months of this, I began to allow other important projects, such as my plotting
library, to "leak" into my work. This was exacerbated by the fact that one of
the graduating members was trying to release a piece of software, leading me to
conclude---incorrectly---that software development was a legitimate form of
productivity. In contrast, during grad school I had three forms of work:
"teaching", "publishable", and "other". When I worked on my plotting library in
grad school I was fully aware of what I was not teaching or pushing my research
forward.


Ah, but why did I not implement my grad-school planning system during my
postdoc? After all, I knew that I had something that worked quite well. Indeed I
*tried* to use my grad-school time management and planning system, but it didn't
stick. One of my biggest problems was that I didn't feel like I could work on
personal stuff during work, and that the lab went out to lunch every day. I was
trying to work on personal planning items, such as a home loan refinance, but I
didn't feel like I had any time to work on it. Not only was I suddenly expecting
that I would spend eight hours a day on *work*, but I also had an additional 1.5
hours of my day spent on commuting, and an additional hour every day out to
lunch with lab members. At the same time, I tried to expand my planning system
to include personal life as well as my Perl efforts, and I found that I was
consistently expecting more of my time than I could accomplish. Due to the
nature of the planning system, I ended up spending most of my "planning" time
simply shuffling due dates that I had missed and became disheartened with the
whole system. I eventually stopped doing my morning planning and distracted
myself on the commute with other interests, which then bled into my work time.
Obviously ther are lessons to be learned from this; they will be explored in
another post, but the point is that I tried to use my system and it did not
effectively translate into my new situation.

